- Is the dream becoming real? 

In 1901, Goedel famously proved that there can be no sound and complete computer
program that can decide if mathematical proposition is true or not. People
however, have continuously looked for such a programs that, in specific
situations, can provide useful approximations. Such approximations should be
either sound by construction, or checkable for correcteness by an external proof
checker.

In the last couple of years however, we have seen an unexpecreded development in
the field of theorem proving, with the emergence of large language models (LLMs)
that can generate pretty much anything, including code. The main issue with the
output of these models is that it is not guaranteed to be correct, and in fact,
it is often wrong, sometimes leading to dramatic consequences. The ability of
these models to generate code has seen remarkable progress and range of use,
changing the way we write code and interact with it. '

However, the code generated by these models is not guaranteed to be correct, and in fact, it is often wrong, sometimes leading to dramatic consequences. 

The question of whether it will ever be possible to have a program that can
reliably generate correct code is still an open question, and it is not clear if
it will ever be possible to achieve.

That said, as we all know proofs are programs, and therefore can also be generated by these models. 

And the question arises, can we have an LLM that can generated code along with
its proof of correctness? No one would need to worry about the correctness of
the generated code if it comes with a proof of its correctness.

The human could only write the specification of the code, in mathematical terms,
and the LLM would generate both the code and its proof of correctness. How close
are we to this dream? Has the LLMs has brought to a verified software revolution
that we have never seen before and have been dreamt about for decades?

Can we specify our systems in high-order logics, and have the LLM generate both
the code and its proof of correctness? 

: 
- Prolog 
- Logic programming
- Is this the ultimate definition of declarative programming?

- Can then this language be compiled to efficient code, in a provably correct
  way?

The languages that provide the feature of proving (often called proof
assistants) are not famous for their efficiency or easy of interaction with the 
environment 